feat: create a x/gov tutorial (#1217)
cosmos/sdk-tutorials: tutorials/understanding-gov/index.md

---
parent:
title: Understand the Gov Module
order: 0
description: Use the Cosmos SDK gov module for participation to Cosmos SDK governance. Create proposals of any message type thanks to the new gov module.
tags:
  - tutorial
  - cosmos-sdk
  - dev-ops
---

# Understand the Gov Module

The [`gov`](https://docs.cosmos.network/v0.46/modules/gov) module enables governance on Cosmos SDK. It allows you to create proposals of any message type, and vote on them.

## Usage of the gov module

When the gov module is enabled on a chain (for example the Cosmos Hub), the users can submit a proposal to be voted on by the community.
A proposal can be an upgrade of the chain, a change of the parameters of the chain, a simple text proposal, or any other message type. This tutorial will focus on how you can participate in governance, by creating and voting on proposals.

Before starting, review some terminology:

* **Proposal:** A proposal is a suggestion that is submitted to the network for voting. Once a proposal is submitted, it is identified by a unique proposal ID.

> * **Message:** A proposal includes an array of `sdk.Msgs` which are executed automatically if the proposal passes. This means you can submit a proposal about any action on which the governance module has `authority`.

Author: It is executed automatically.

> * **Message:** A proposal includes an array of `sdk.Msgs` which are executed automatically if the proposal passes. This means you can submit a proposal about any action on which the governance module has `authority`.

Reviewer: Should we mention what happens to the gas used for these messages? In end blocker, I suppose.

> * **Message:** A proposal includes an array of `sdk.Msgs` which are executed automatically if the proposal passes. This means you can submit a proposal about any action on which the governance module has `authority`.

Author: Don't think so, we don't teach about sdk internal here. It's more for a chain user / validator than a chain dev.

* **Deposit period:** To prevent spam, proposals must be submitted with a deposit in the coins defined by the chain. At this point, for instance, the Cosmos Hub requires a `64 ATOM` deposit. The deposit is always refunded to the depositors after voting, unless the proposal is vetoed: in that case the deposit is burned.

<HighlightBox type="tip">

The proposer is not obliged to submit the totality of the deposit amount. Other users can also contribute to the deposit. 

> </HighlightBox>

Author: Do we need that?

> </HighlightBox>

Reviewer: It will make the box look indented to the previous line item. It is subtle but consistent...

> * **Voting period:** After the minimum deposit is reached, the proposal enters the voting period. During this period, users can vote on the proposal. The voting period is defined by the chain, for instance, the Cosmos Hub has a `2 weeks` voting period.

Author: No but I could link https://www.mintscan.io/cosmos/parameters

> * **Voting period:** After the minimum deposit is reached, the proposal enters the voting period. During this period, users can vote on the proposal. The voting period is defined by the chain, for instance, the Cosmos Hub has a `2 weeks` voting period.

Reviewer: Where is the genesis of Gaia published? 🤔

* **Quorum:** Quorum is defined as the minimum percentage of voting power that needs to be cast on a proposal for the result to be valid. If the quorum is not reached, the proposal is rejected.

> * **Voting options:** Voters can choose between `Yes`, `No`, `NoWithVeto` and `Abstain`. `NoWithVeto` allows the voter to cast a `No` vote, but also to veto the proposal. If a proposal is vetoed, it is automatically rejected and the deposit burned. `Abstain` allows the voter to abstain from voting. With a majority of `Yes` the proposal pass and its messages are executed.

Author: Specified

More information about the governance concepts can be found in the [Cosmos SDK documentation](https://docs.cosmos.network/v0.46/modules/gov/01_concepts.html).

## Requirements

> The gov module has been introduced in the [v0.46.0 release](https://docs.cosmos.network/v0.46/modules/gov/) of the Cosmos SDK. To follow the tutorial, you must use the binary of a chain with the gov module, using a v0.46+ version of the SDK. For demonstration purposes, you will use `simd`, the simulation app of the Cosmos SDK.

Author: I will clarify, gov v1 is since 0.46. Before it was v1beta1.

```

Make sure the installation was successful:

```sh
$ simd version
```

The version number should be greater than or equal to `0.46.3`.

## Configuration

<HighlightBox type="tip">

If you have used `simd` before, you might already have a `.simapp` directory in your home directory. You can skip to the next section or remove the chain directory (`rm -rf ~/.simapp`).

</HighlightBox>

For configuring `simd`, you have to set the chain ID and the keyring backend.

```sh
$ simd config chain-id demo
$ simd config keyring-backend test
```

Secondly, you need to add keys for chain users. Call them Alice and Bob:

```sh
$ simd keys add alice
$ simd keys add bob
```

With `simd keys list` you can verify that your two users have been added.

<HighlightBox type="tip">

To avoid having to copy and paste the user addresses, now is a good time to export the user keys to variables that you can access and use for this tutorial.

</HighlightBox>

```sh
$ export ALICE=$(simd keys show alice --address)
$ export BOB=$(simd keys show bob --address)
```

Now you are ready to fund Alice and Bob's respective accounts and use the Alice account as validator:

```sh
$ simd init test --chain-id demo
```

> The default voting period is **172800s**. It is too long to wait for the tutorial, so you will change it to **180s**. To do so, you need to edit the `~/.simapp/config/genesis.json` file:

Reviewer: If you think it is useful, I got this one-liner that can update in place https://github.com/cosmos/sdk-tutorials/blob/master/academy/3-my-own-chain/migration.md?plain=1#L1604

Author: I was sure I saw that somewhere, but couldn't find it back! Thanks :)

```json
"voting_period": "180s"
```

Then add the genesis accounts:

```sh
$ simd add-genesis-account alice 5000000000stake --keyring-backend test
$ simd add-genesis-account bob 5000000000stake --keyring-backend test
$ simd gentx alice 1000000stake --chain-id demo
$ simd collect-gentxs
```

Lastly, start the chain:

```sh
$ simd start
```

`simapp` is now configured and running. You can now play with the gov module.

## Create a proposal

<HighlightBox type="note">

> Prior to submit a proposal on the Cosmos Hub, it is requested to publish a draft of the proposal on the [Cosmos Hub Forum](https://forum.cosmos.network). This allows the community to discuss the proposal before it arrives on chain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prior to submitting a proposal on the Cosmos Hub, it is requested to publish a draft of the proposal on the [Cosmos Hub Forum](https://forum.cosmos.network). This allows the community to discuss the proposal before it appears on chain.
```

</HighlightBox>

> For creating a proposal, we can use the following interactive command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before sending anything to the blockchain, to create the files that describe a proposal, you can use the following interactive command:
```

```sh
$ simd tx gov draft-proposal
```

You will first create a simple text proposal. A text proposal does not contain any message, but only proposal [metadata](https://docs.cosmos.network/v0.46/modules/gov/08_metadata.html).

```sh
Use the arrow keys to navigate: ↓ ↑ → ← 
? Select proposal type: 
  ▸ text
    community-pool-spend
    software-upgrade
    cancel-software-upgrade
    other
```

Then enter the proposal title, authors, and other proposal metadata:

```sh
✔ text
✔ Enter proposal title: Test Proposal
✔ Enter proposal authors: Alice
✔ Enter proposal summary: A test proposal with simapp
✔ Enter proposal details: -
✔ Enter proposal proposal forum url: https://example.org/proposal/1█
✔ Enter proposal vote option context: YES: XX, NO: YX, ABSTAIN: XY, NO_WITH_VETO: YY
```

Then enter the proposal deposit:

```sh
✔ Enter proposal deposit: 10stake
Your draft proposal has successfully been generated.
Proposals should contain off-chain metadata, please upload the metadata JSON to IPFS.
Then, replace the generated metadata field with the IPFS CID.
```

The `draft-proposal` command has now generated two files:

>     * **draft_metadata.json**

Reviewer: ```suggestion

    * **draft_metadata.json**
```

    * **draft_proposal.json** 

The content of `draft_metadata.json` contains the information you have just entered:

```json
{

>  "title": "Test Proposal",
>  "authors": "Alice",
>  "summary": "A test proposal with simapp",
>  "details": "-",
>  "proposal_forum_url": "https://example.org/proposal/1",
>  "vote_option_context": "YES: XX, NO: YX, ABSTAIN: XY, NO_WITH_VETO: YY"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  "title": "Test Proposal",
  "authors": "Alice",
  "summary": "A test proposal with simapp",
  "details": "-",
  "proposal_forum_url": "https://example.org/proposal/1",
  "vote_option_context": "YES: XX, NO: YX, ABSTAIN: XY, NO_WITH_VETO: YY"
```

}
```

This json is deemed to be [pinned on IPFS](https://tutorials.cosmos.network/tutorials/how-to-use-ipfs/).

<HighlightBox type="note">

> We went ahead and pinned this file on IPFS. Its CID is `QmbmhY1eNXdmcVV8QPqV5enwLZm1mjH7iv8aYTQ4RJCH49`. You can verify its content on <https://w3s.link/ipfs/QmbmhY1eNXdmcVV8QPqV5enwLZm1mjH7iv8aYTQ4RJCH49>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In fact this file is already pinned on IPFS. Its CID is `QmbmhY1eNXdmcVV8QPqV5enwLZm1mjH7iv8aYTQ4RJCH49`. You can verify its content on <https://w3s.link/ipfs/QmbmhY1eNXdmcVV8QPqV5enwLZm1mjH7iv8aYTQ4RJCH49>.
```

</HighlightBox>

Now look at the content of the generated `draft_proposal.json`:

```json
{

>  "metadata": "ipfs://CID",
>  "deposit": "10stake"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  "metadata": "ipfs://CID",
  "deposit": "10stake"
```

}
```

> Replace the `metadata` field by `ipfs://QmbmhY1eNXdmcVV8QPqV5enwLZm1mjH7iv8aYTQ4RJCH49`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace the `metadata` field with `ipfs://QmbmhY1eNXdmcVV8QPqV5enwLZm1mjH7iv8aYTQ4RJCH49`.
```

Submit the proposal on chain from alice:

```sh

> $ simd tx gov submit-proposal draft_proposal.json --from=alice --keyring-backend test

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ simd tx gov submit-proposal draft_proposal.json --from alice --keyring-backend test
```

For visual consistency?

Author: Sure!

```

> The command output a transaction hash. You can use it to query the proposal:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The command outputs a transaction hash. You can use it to query the proposal:
```

```sh
$ simd query tx 3447C74EE19EF5E4B413547F1809C1E2026A7B7A8281366F88174F37D87F7060 --output json
```

## View and vote on proposals

> In our case, the proposal ID is `1`. You can query the proposal with the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In your case, the proposal ID is `1`. You can query the proposal with the following command:
```

```sh
$ simd query gov proposal 1
```

Which returns:

```sh
deposit_end_time: "2022-09-20T16:36:04.741427768Z"
final_tally_result:
  abstain_count: "0"
  no_count: "0"
  no_with_veto_count: "0"
  yes_count: "0"
id: "1"
messages: []
metadata: ipfs://QmbmhY1eNXdmcVV8QPqV5enwLZm1mjH7iv8aYTQ4RJCH49
status: PROPOSAL_STATUS_DEPOSIT_PERIOD
submit_time: "2022-09-18T16:36:04.741427768Z"
total_deposit:
- amount: "10"
  denom: stake
voting_end_time: null
voting_start_time: null
```

> As we can see, the proposal is in the deposit period. We cannot yet vote on it. We can see what is the minimum proposal deposit for a chain with the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you can see, the proposal is in the deposit period. You cannot yet vote on it. You can find out what is the minimum proposal deposit for a chain with the following command:
```

```sh

> $ simd q gov params --output=json | jq .deposit_params.min_deposit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ simd query gov params --output json | jq .deposit_params.min_deposit
```

`jq` can work without `"`? 😱

Author: Yes haha

```

It returns:

```json
[
  {
    "denom": "stake",
    "amount": "10000000"
  }
]
```

> We need to deposit `9999990` stake to the proposal (remember that we have submitted the proposal with `10stake`). We can do so with the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since you submitted the proposal with `10stake`, you need to top up the deposit with `9999990stake`. You can do so with Bob and the following command:
```

```sh

> $ simd tx gov deposit 1 9999990stake --from=alice --keyring-backend test

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ simd tx gov deposit 1 9999990stake --from bob --keyring-backend test
```

```

The proposal is now in the voting period. Do not forget, you have `180s` (as per the gov param) to vote on the proposal.

```sh

> $ simd query gov proposal 1 --output=json | jq .status

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ simd query gov proposal 1 --output json | jq .status
```

```

> We can vote on it with the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can vote on it with the following command:
```

* **Message:** A proposal includes an array of `sdk.Msgs` which are executed automatically if the proposal passes. This means you can submit a proposal about any action on which the governance module has `authority`.

* **Deposit period:** To prevent spam, proposals must be submitted with a deposit in the coins defined by the chain. At this point, for instance, the Cosmos Hub requires a [`64 ATOM` deposit](https://mintscan.io/cosmos/parameters). The deposit is always refunded to the depositors after voting, unless the proposal is vetoed: in that case the deposit is burned.

  <HighlightBox type="tip">

  The proposer is not obliged to submit the totality of the deposit amount. Other users can also contribute to the deposit. 

  </HighlightBox>

* **Voting period:** After the minimum deposit is reached, the proposal enters the voting period. During this period, users can vote on the proposal. The voting period is a parameter of individual chains. For instance, the Cosmos Hub has a [`2 weeks` voting period](https://mintscan.io/cosmos/parameters).

> 
> * **Quorum:** Quorum is defined as the minimum percentage of voting power that needs to be cast on a proposal for the result to be valid. If the quorum is not reached, the proposal is rejected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

* **Voting options:** Voters can choose between `Yes`, `No`, `NoWithVeto` and `Abstain`. `NoWithVeto` allows the voter to cast a `No` vote, but also to veto the proposal. If a proposal is vetoed, it is automatically rejected and the deposit burned. `Abstain` allows the voter to abstain from voting. With a majority of `Yes` the proposal pass and its messages are executed. `Abstain` is different from not voting at all, as voting contributes to reaching the quorum.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

* **Voting weight:** A.k.a. **voting power**. Each vote is weighted by the voter's staked tokens at the time the vote tally is computed. For the avoidance of doubt, it means that the number of staked tokens at the time the vote transaction is sent is irrelevant.

* **Quorum:** Quorum is defined as the minimum percentage of voting power that needs to be cast on a proposal for the result to be valid. If the quorum is not reached, the proposal is rejected.

```

```sh
$ simd query gov params --output json | jq .deposit_params.min_deposit
```

It returns:

```json
[
  {
    "denom": "stake",
    "amount": "10000000"
  }
]
```

Therefore, since you submitted the proposal with `10stake`, you need to top up the deposit with `9999990stake`. You can do so with Bob and the following command:

```sh
$ simd tx gov deposit 1 9999990stake --from bob --keyring-backend test
```

The proposal is now in the voting period. Do not forget, you have three minutes (`180s` as per the gov parameters) to vote on the proposal.

```sh
$ simd query gov proposal 1 --output json | jq .status
```

You can vote on it with the following command:

```sh
$ simd tx gov vote 1 yes --from alice --keyring-backend test
$ simd tx gov vote 1 no --from bob --keyring-backend test
```

After waiting for the voting period, you can see that the proposal has passed.

```sh
$ simd query gov proposal 1 --output json | jq .status
```

> This is because the governance proposal weights each vote by the amount of tokens staked. Alice owns staked tokens, while Bob has no staked tokens. So Bob's vote was not taken into consideration in the tally of the result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is because the governance proposal weights each vote by the amount of tokens staked. Alice owns staked tokens, while Bob has no staked tokens at the end of the voting period. So Bob's vote was not taken into consideration in the tally of the result.
```

---
parent:
title: Understand the Gov Module
order: 0
description: Use the Cosmos SDK gov module for participation in Cosmos SDK governance. Create proposals of any message type thanks to the new gov module.
tags:
  - tutorial
  - cosmos-sdk
  - dev-ops
---

# Understand the Gov Module

The [`gov`](https://docs.cosmos.network/v0.46/modules/gov) module enables governance on Cosmos SDK. It allows you to create proposals of any message type, and vote on them.

## Usage of the gov module

When the gov module is enabled on a chain (for example the Cosmos Hub), the users can submit a proposal to be voted on by the community.

A proposal can be an upgrade of the chain, a change of the parameters of the chain, a simple text proposal, or any other message type. This tutorial will focus on how you can participate in governance, by creating and voting on proposals.

Before starting, review some terminology:

* **Proposal:** A proposal is a suggestion that is submitted to the network for voting. Once a proposal is submitted, it is identified by a unique proposal ID.

> * **Message:** A proposal includes an array of `sdk.Msgs` which are executed automatically if the proposal passes. This means you can submit a proposal about any action on which the governance module has `authority`.

Author: Because authority is actually a field, you can fill yourself in a message: e.g. https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/5deb137f7a83506381472928d898cd823735aade/proto/cosmos/upgrade/v1beta1/tx.proto#L34.
Many modules set governance has the authority.

</HighlightBox>

To configure `simd`, you have to set the chain ID and the keyring backend.

```sh
$ simd config chain-id demo
$ simd config keyring-backend test
```

Secondly, you need to add keys for chain users. Call them Alice and Bob:

```sh
$ simd keys add alice
$ simd keys add bob
```

With `simd keys list` you can verify that your two users have been added.

<HighlightBox type="tip">

To avoid having to copy and paste the user addresses, now is a good time to export the user keys to variables that you can access and use for this tutorial.

</HighlightBox>

```sh
$ export ALICE=$(simd keys show alice --address)
$ export BOB=$(simd keys show bob --address)
```

Now you are ready to fund Alice and Bob's respective accounts and use the Alice account as validator:

```sh
$ simd init test --chain-id demo
```

The default voting period is **172800s**. It is too long to wait for the tutorial, so you will change it to **180s**. To do so, you need to edit the `~/.simapp/config/genesis.json` file:

```sh
$ cat <<< $(jq '.app_state.gov.voting_params.voting_period = "180s"' ~/.simapp/config/genesis.json) > ~/.simapp/config/genesis.json

> $ cat <<< $(jq '.app_state.gov.params.voting_period = "180s"' ~/.simapp/config/genesis.json) > ~/.simapp/config/genesis.json

Author: The first one, the second one is from 0.47 🙈

> $ cat <<< $(jq '.app_state.gov.params.voting_period = "180s"' ~/.simapp/config/genesis.json) > ~/.simapp/config/genesis.json

Reviewer: Ah! Better use a `CodeGroup` with labels 0.46 and 0.47. See https://github.com/cosmos/sdk-tutorials/blob/master/academy/3-my-own-chain/create-message.md?plain=1#L75-L93

> $ cat <<< $(jq '.app_state.gov.params.voting_period = "180s"' ~/.simapp/config/genesis.json) > ~/.simapp/config/genesis.json

Reviewer: Labels:

* 0.46
* if you use 0.47+

> $ cat <<< $(jq '.app_state.gov.params.voting_period = "180s"' ~/.simapp/config/genesis.json) > ~/.simapp/config/genesis.json

Author: Added

    software-upgrade
    cancel-software-upgrade
    other
```

Then enter the proposal title, authors, and other proposal metadata:

```sh
✔ text
✔ Enter proposal title: Test Proposal
✔ Enter proposal authors: Alice
✔ Enter proposal summary: A test proposal with simapp
✔ Enter proposal details: -
✔ Enter proposal proposal forum url: https://example.org/proposal/1█
✔ Enter proposal vote option context: YES: XX, NO: YX, ABSTAIN: XY, NO_WITH_VETO: YY
```

Then enter the proposal deposit:

```sh
✔ Enter proposal deposit: 10stake
Your draft proposal has successfully been generated.
Proposals should contain off-chain metadata, please upload the metadata JSON to IPFS.
Then, replace the generated metadata field with the IPFS CID.
```

The `draft-proposal` command has now generated two files:

* **draft_metadata.json**
* **draft_proposal.json** 

The content of `draft_metadata.json` contains the information you have just entered:

```json
{
  "title": "Test Proposal",
  "authors": "Alice",
  "summary": "A test proposal with simapp",
  "details": "-",
  "proposal_forum_url": "https://example.org/proposal/1",
  "vote_option_context": "YES: XX, NO: YX, ABSTAIN: XY, NO_WITH_VETO: YY"
}
```

> This json is deemed to be [pinned on IPFS](https://tutorials.cosmos.network/tutorials/how-to-use-ipfs/).

Author: Changed to _should_.

<HighlightBox type="note">

In fact this file is already pinned on IPFS. Its CID is `QmbmhY1eNXdmcVV8QPqV5enwLZm1mjH7iv8aYTQ4RJCH49`. You can verify its content on <https://w3s.link/ipfs/QmbmhY1eNXdmcVV8QPqV5enwLZm1mjH7iv8aYTQ4RJCH49>.

</HighlightBox>

Now look at the content of the generated `draft_proposal.json`:

```json
{
  "metadata": "ipfs://CID",
  "deposit": "10stake"
}
```

Replace the `metadata` field with `ipfs://QmbmhY1eNXdmcVV8QPqV5enwLZm1mjH7iv8aYTQ4RJCH49`.

Submit the proposal on chain from alice:

```sh
$ simd tx gov submit-proposal draft_proposal.json --from alice --keyring-backend test
```

> The command outputs a transaction hash. You can use it to query the proposal:

Author: No, we should not, it will be removed in v0.47: https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/pull/12659

> The command outputs a transaction hash. You can use it to query the proposal:

Reviewer: I am curious what will be the canonical way to wait for validation.

$ simd tx gov vote 1 no --from bob --keyring-backend test
```

After waiting the voting period, you can see that the proposal passed.

```sh
$ simd query gov proposal 1 --output json | jq .status
```

> This is because the governance proposal weight the votes given the amount of token staked. Alice had staked tokens, while Bob had no token staked. So Bob's vote was not took into consideration in the tally of the result.

Author: I'm not sure what you mean by this.

> This is because the governance proposal weight the votes given the amount of token staked. Alice had staked tokens, while Bob had no token staked. So Bob's vote was not took into consideration in the tally of the result.

Reviewer: * Alice votes Yes with 1 million ATOM.
* Alice unstakes her million ATOM and waits 3 weeks.
* Alice sends her million to Bob.
* Bob votes Yes with 1 million ATOM.

This should not be allowed. It was possible because the voting period was longer than the unsticking period.

> This is because the governance proposal weight the votes given the amount of token staked. Alice had staked tokens, while Bob had no token staked. So Bob's vote was not took into consideration in the tally of the result.

Author: This cannot happen because the vote weight is calculated at vote tally. So only Bob's vote will be counted in that case (if he staked).

> This is because the governance proposal weight the votes given the amount of token staked. Alice had staked tokens, while Bob had no token staked. So Bob's vote was not took into consideration in the tally of the result.

Reviewer: Mmh, I don't like O(n) actions in blockchain 🤣 
Are you sure there is nothing like intermediate tally, and when unstaking, your vote is updated on all proposals?

> This is because the governance proposal weight the votes given the amount of token staked. Alice had staked tokens, while Bob had no token staked. So Bob's vote was not took into consideration in the tally of the result.

Reviewer: Lol

$ simd query gov proposal 1 --output json | jq .status
```

> This is because the governance proposal weights each vote by the amount of tokens staked. Alice owns staked tokens, while Bob has no staked tokens at the end of the voting period. So Bob's vote was not taken into consideration in the tally of the result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is because the governance proposal weights each vote by the amount of tokens staked. Alice owns staked tokens, while Bob had no staked tokens at the end of the voting period. So Bob's vote was not taken into consideration in the tally of the result.
```
